Everything appears to be magical until we apply a breakpoints and trace the runtime step by step.
So what I'm going to do is apply breakpoints at the heart of our application, which is the grade controller.
I will apply some breakpoints pretty much everywhere.
And now.
I think I'm ready to run the app and debug mode.
I probably should have ran by now.
So I'll go to local host.
80.
You probably noticed by now the this keyword, this means current object.
So as soon as we ran our spring boot application, it performed a component.
Scan controller is a derivative of component, but it's more specialized because it can also handle
web requests.
But anyways, this class was scanned by our spring boot application and upon startup an object was created
of the grade controller class.
And right now we are inside the current grade controller object.
And now you'll notice if you expand this, the grade controller object has a grade service object.
Once again a -- application startup it scanned for components.
The service annotation is a derivative of component, so a great service being was created and is being
managed inside the spring container and this grade service bean was ordered wired inside of this great
service variable.
Now, if you go even further, the grade service object has a great repository object.
Again, a -- application startup.
It performed a component scan.
Repository is a component derivative, so a greater repository being was created and is currently being
managed inside of the spring container.
But this same bean was ordered wired into the grade repository variable.
So you can say that a great controller, instead of creating a great service object, it's using a great
service object that already lives inside of the spring container.
It's leveraging a spring bean.
And from this great service object, we can make calls to get grade by ID.
In order to get an index.
Then based on this index, it will return an object.
So everything still works exactly the same way as before.
Instead of creating its own object, it is simply using an object that already exists.
By press.
Next, it returns the form.
I'll go ahead and submit something, let's say Harry C-minus, and we'll do everything correctly this
time.
Potions.
All right.
There are no errors.
So we can step into the next breakpoint.
And now I can call submit grade from our grade service object.
I can step inside of this function.
I'll step over this line.
The index is -1000.
So this will execute.
Ad grade leverage is the great repository been.
And ad grade.
I will step inside of this function.
And here, like before, the great service object is not creating its own instance of the great repository.
It's simply using an instance of greater repository that already exists inside of the spring container
and using this great repository object, this great repository being we can call get grades.
I won't step inside.
I'm just going to step over this.
And here you can see that it has added a grade to the student grades ArrayList.
All right.
Everything still works exactly the same way as before.
Now it redirects them to make a get request on slash grades.
It will do exactly that and it will call get grades from the great service object stepping into that.
This is going to call get to grades from the great repository object and it's going to return the student
grades.
Here you can visualize the return value.
There is only one grade.
So it follows that the.
The grades template will just return a single grade.
Beautiful.
So just to really drive home the point, instead of creating our own objects, these objects already
exist behind the scenes.
We're just wiring them in.
That being said, an object that we wire in from the spring container is a bean.